There will definitely be times when you need to crack
open the Prometheus configuration and make some changes.
All you need to do is open up
the configuration YAML file in your favorite text editor and modify away.
For example, you may want to change the scrape interval
from 15 seconds to 20 seconds or 60 seconds,
in case you are concerned about network chatter from exporters.
Scraping is a lot like polling or making
requests to other systems periodically to check in.
When you're ready to set up alert manager,
you'll need to come back here to the configuration to add
the host name or IP address of that machine right here.
You'll eventually want to set up some alert rules,
which you'll define in another file and reference here by name.
As you build up your list of exporters,
you'll need to add more and more scrape configs right here to handle each one.
I only have one in my configuration file at the moment.
This is where you'll also set up your automatic service discovery.
That's an introduction of the Prometheus config file.